>> [MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
let's talk about binary search
trees because this stuff fun.
I like it I get excited
about binary search trees.
So again, I just want to
reiterate reiterate to everyone.
This is hard, right.
This is not simple to achieve and
furthermore I'm compressing a lot
of content and that's a lot of cognitive
drain throughout this entire day.
So, this is not like if you feel
yourself dragging a little bit,
I profoundly understand.
Okay so we're gonna do ad.
So the first thing we need to do, is we
need to check, do we even have a root?
Right, because we can't really do
anything if you don't have a root.
So, if this.root equals null,
meaning we haven't added
anything to the list yet,
gonna say, this.root = new Node(value).
Okay, a plus,
we now have a route which is good.
And here, I'm just gonna say return
cuz then you don't wanna do any of this
other stuff if you create the node.
So, let's go ahead and do the rest of it.
So, I'm gonna say,
let current equal this .root.
This is gonna look very much similar to
finding something in the link list, right?
It's kinda the same idea.
And I'm going to change just to X describe
because I don't wanna set off an infinite
loop with what I'm about to do.
So, let current = route and
then I'm gonna do which will look
really weird to some people a while
true loop,
which basically means that I want this to
keep running until I explicitly
break out of you, right.
And the reason why we can do this is that
if you're adding a new value to a binary
there's always a place to add it, right?
It should never actually
not find a place to add it.
So that's why it's okay for
us to do a while(true).
Okay, so if (current.value)
Is greater than that value.
That basically means we need to go left,
right?
So, go left and then else go, right.
So, when you're kind of skeletoning these
things out it's kind of helpful to put
these little code reminders in here for
you,okay.
So, if current start
left then current.left
then current is assigned current.left.
So basically, we're saying if you have
a left child now I'm gonna move my pointer
my current pointer to the left child and
rerun this loop again, right.
So it's basically saying,
okay I'm gonna run the loop again, right?
If it doesn't have a left child then at
this point we found the spot that we need
to add it in, right?
So, we're going to say,
else current.left is assigned.
New node with the value and
then return because we're done.
We found the place add it and we're done.
You can also do break here.
If some people don't like having
multiple return statements in a loop or
in a function that doesn't
really bother me so I do return.
But you're also welcome
to do break as well.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
as you might imagine,
go right is pretty much the same thing.
>> Brian Holt: So,
if current.right,
>> Brian Holt: Then
current is assigned current.right else
current is assigned or current.right.
They do it right up there as well so
yeah, okay.
Current.right is assigned
new node with value.
And then we just return
because we're done.
So, now, hopefully I can go ahead and
change has to be described and
we have a correct looking tree.
>> Brian Holt: Any questions about this?
Does that make sense for the most part?
Or is it just like black magic and
I'm waving my hands around say
look at the cool code things.
Cuz I can totally be doing that too.
>> Brian Holt: Let's just
conceptually walk through it
again in case anyone missed it.
So, the first part is, no head,
create a new head, right?
Like that's this first block right here.
So, if you have no root or head or
whatever you want to call it,
create a new head and then return.
So that's the, like the edge case, right?
Okay, so the first we're gonna do is
we're gonna grab the root and say this is
the node that we're currently looking at,
that's why I call it current, right?
Then we're gonna have a while true
loop that's just gonna loop over
as many times as we need, right?
And we're gonna say hey,
current dot value,
this no that I'm inspecting at
this moment time is your value
greater than the value
that I'm trying to find?
If it is then you need to go left because
you need to be in the smaller part of my
tree, right?
That's basically we're
currently seeing here.
That's saying if I have a left child
then run the same process with
my left child as current, right.
So, you're just moving from three to one,
right.
So, we're just moving and
zigzagging down the tree,
yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Else if I do not have
a left child then you have found the spot
that you're supposed to insert this, so
create a new left child and
then you're done get out of here.
And just the mirror image for, right.
Okay.
>> Speaker 3: If you allow duplicates
finding Z for
example if you like to because you have
to follow the loop until you
don't get a result back?
If I will find all the duplicates.
And you go.
>> Brian Holt: And
if you want to find all the duplicates.
>> Speaker 3: Again,
the first night seems easy, but
finding the second nine, third nine?
>> Brian Holt: Right, so you have to have,
I guess, a knowledge of do duplicates
get added to the left always.
So basically, you're gonna keep looking
for nines, and just adding them,
or keeping track of the ones
that you've already found.
Until you get to the place that
you would add a nine, right.
And then, at that point once you've
reached what's called the leafnode, right.
Then you know that there can be no more,
right.
So basicall,
you just follow that pattern through to
exhaustion basically good question.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Dan H has a question about,
what are some practical uses for
a binary search tree?
>> Brian Holt: The practical use for
a binary search tree is when you have
ordered data, ordered in the sense of,
it can have can be ordered from 0 to 10 or
A to Z or something like that,
and you need to be able to search for
nodes very, very quickly.
I know underneath the hood a lot of some
databases are done with trees don't ask me
specifically which
because I don't know but
specifically when things need to be
searched for fast like I'm going to guess
maybe something like the last
six search of total guess but
maybe something like an elastic search.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Brian Holt: I'm sure they use
trees everywhere or like in auto complete,
I could see using trees
very well because you.
I write A, then I write AB and
it's gonna go down this
pathway until it finds things
that it can auto complete for me.
I could see that being a very useful
case for an ordered tree like this.
Good question.